americans love their microwave popcorn
especially the butter flavored kind but
there are questions tonight the fumes
from that butter flavor could be
dangerous after you pop your corn in the
microwave that butter flavor comes from
the ingredient diacetyl and it has
severely damaged the lungs of those who
work in popcorn plants they can't
breathe I mean these are is a 25-year
old man who can't walk up the stairs
it's it's asthma like it's debilitating
it does not get better with removal from
the hazard hundreds of current and
former popcorn plant workers from at
least seven states have sued flavoring
companies for damage to their lungs when
they breathed in the fumes from diacetyl
more than 100 have settled out of court
plant worker Eric people was awarded 18
million dollars in damages in 2004 for
his lung damage so why is it still being
used in plants and in products consumers
eat an unreleased EPA draft study that's
been underway for years sought to
identify and quantify chemical emissions
generated in the process of popping and
opening a bag of microwave popcorn but
the study does not address how those
chemical emissions affect your lungs at
least one indianapolis-based company
isn't waiting for the EPA to release its
final report pop Weaver is the first
major microwave popcorn producer to
remove diacetyl from its product saying
the flavoring has been cited as a
possible source of injury to certain
employees of food companies who may have
inhaled large dosages of diacetyl since
consumers are increasingly concerned
about this issue we have removed
diacetyl from our flavorings in the
meantime ConAgra Foods which makes
Orville Redenbacher an act to microwave
popcorn says it's seen the EPA draft but
won't comment on it until the final
report is issue however it adds to
eliminate even the perception of any
concern and to provide the safest
possible environment for workers who
handle large quantities of diacetyl we
expect to eliminate the use of added
diacetyl to our products in the near
future